*INTRODUCTION*

Home automation:
	Home automation is building automation for a home, called a smart home or smart house. A home automation system will monitor and/or control home attributes such as lighting, climate, entertainment systems, and appliances. It may also include home security such as access control and alarm systems. When connected with the Internet, home devices are an important constituent of the Internet of Things ("IoT").
A home automation system typically connects controlled devices to a central smart home hub (sometimes called a "gateway"). The user interface for control of the system uses either wall-mounted terminals, tablet or desktop computers, a mobile phone application, or a Web interface that may also be accessible off-site through the Internet.
While there are many competing vendors, there are increasing efforts towards open source systems. However, there are issues with the current state of home automation including a lack of standardized security measures and deprecation of older devices without backwards compatibility.
Home automation has high potential for sharing data between family members or trusted individuals for personal security and could lead to energy saving measures with a positive environmental impact in the future.
The home automation market was worth US$5.77 billion in 2013, predicted to reach a market value of US$12.81 billion by 2020.
In other words, “Home automation” refers to the automatic and electronic control of household features, activity, and appliances. In simple terms, it means you can easily control the utilities and features of your home via the Internet to make life more convenient and secure, and even spend less on household bills.
How does home automation work?
Home automation is a network of hardware, communication, and electronic interfaces that work to integrate everyday devices with one another via the Internet. Each device has sensors and is connected through WiFi, so you can manage them from your smartphone or tablet whether you’re at home, or miles away. This allows you to turn on the lights, lock the front door, or even turn down the heat, no matter where you are.
What are the benefits of home automation?
The purpose of a home automation system is to streamline how your home functions. Consider some of these benefits:

o	Remote access: Control your home from mobile devices, including your laptop, tablet, or smartphone.
o	Comfort: Use home automation to make your home a more comfortable, liveable space. Pre-program your thermostat with your preferred settings so that your home is always at a comfortable temperature, set up smart speakers to play music when you get home from work, or adjust your lights to soften or brighten based on the time of day.
o	Convenience: Program devices to turn on automatically at certain times, or access their settings remotely from anywhere with an Internet connection. When you don’t have to remember to lock the door behind you or switch off the lights, you can turn your attention to more important things.
o	Increased safety: Smart fire detectors, carbon monoxide monitors, pressure sensors, and other home automation security features can help protect your home from disaster.
o	Energy efficiency: Home automation allows you to be more mindful of your power usage. For example, you can save on energy bills by reducing the length of time that lights stay on, or by lowering temperatures when you leave a room.
What do we do in this project?
	In this project we will control an LED which is connected to ESP8266 with a Telegram bot. As we know about Telegram, it is a messenger app similar to Whatsapp. This enables users to control their ESP8266 via simply typing and sending commands in Telegram by creating a bot. By adding some relays or TRIAC you can make this a home automation project. We control the home automation by using that Telegram bot. 
*Requirements:*
Hardware:
o	ESP8266 NodeMCU
o	Lamp
o	Jumper wires
o	Breadboard
o	Relay module
o	Battery / Power Supply
Software:
o	Arduino IDE (v1.6 or above)
o	Telegram Bot

We will see more details of each components in the next chapter.
